Fslogix 

FSLogix is a type of user profile solution which enhances and enables a consistent experience for Windows user profiles in virtual desktop computing environments. FSLogix is not limited to virtual desktop environments; it could be used on a physical desktop where a more portable user experience is desired.

Functions of FSLogix

Roam user data between remote computing session hosts.

Minimize sign-in times for VM environment.

Optimize File I/O.

Provide a local profile experience.

Simplify the management of apps and gold images.


Why We Prefer FSLogix?

Filter driver masks the folder where VHD is mounted.

Behaves as if it's locally-mounted, avoiding the problem introduced by using junction points.

Enables the use of Teams and OneDrive.

FSLogix Containers support concurrent sessions.

Eligibility

You are eligible to use FSLogix if you have following licenses:

Microsoft 365 E3/E5

Microsoft 365 A3/A5 / Student use benefits

Microsoft 365 F1/F3

Microsoft 365 Business

Windows 10 Enterprise E3/E5

Windows 10 Education A3/A5

Remote Desktop Services (RDS) Client Access License (CAL)

Remote Desktop Services (RDS) Subscriber Access License (SAL)

Azure Virtual Desktop per-user access license

Supported OS

Windows 11 - Single session or multi-session

Windows Server 2016, 2019, 2022, 2025

Container Types

FSLogix has two primary container types: Profile Container and Office Container.

Profile Container

A profile container is all the data related to a user's profile, which is directly stored in VHD(X).

It's a full remote profile solution for non-persistent environments.

Redirects the entire user profile to the remote location.

Its configuration defines how and where the profile is redirected.

The entire profile except "Redirection.XML" is included in the profile container.

Profile container includes all the benefits of office container.

Profile container VHD(X) will contain the entire windows profile for the user except for:

The temp folder location

The IE (Internet Explorer) crash folder location

Note: Exclusions are done with a "Redirection.XML" file.

ODFC Container (Office Data File Container)

An ODFC container is a container type which is focused on storing profile content that is unique to Microsoft Office applications.

Office container redirects only areas of the profile that are specific to Microsoft Office apps.

A Default ODFC container includes:

Office Activation

Outlook

Outlook personalization

SharePoint

OneDrive

Skype for Business (legacy support)

Note: ODFC containers are an optional configuration.

Components & Installation

Main app installation directory: C:\Program Files\FSLogix\Apps

Agent Components

FRX.exe: This is the command line utility.

Services

FRXSVC.exe: Service that communicates with the command line tool, the drivers, and monitors the rule folder for changes.

FRXCCDS.exe: Service responsible for handling cloud cache operations.

Drivers

frxdrv.sys: This driver is responsible for handling file system and registry requests to make hiding and redirection work.

frxdrvvt.sys: This driver provides the advanced redirection capabilities for profile and ODFC containers.

frxccd.sys: It is responsible for handling cloud cache.

Prerequisites for FSLogix

Should be on supported Windows OS (Windows 10, 11, Server 2016, 2019, 2022, 2025).

Eligible licenses (Windows 11 E3, E5, A3, A5, RDS CALS).

User should have access to the storage provider:

\\(Server-name).contoso.com\(share-name) for local machine.

\\(storage-account-name).file.core.windows.net\(share-name) for Azure.

Configure Antivirus file & folder exclusions.

Note: Antivirus products are known to conflict with FSLogix containers & requires that specific files & folders are excluded from any type of scanning.

Cloud Cache

Used for High Availability environment.

Location (Registry/Policy): CCDLocations.

Cloud cache is a feature that works with Profile and ODFC containers to provide resiliency and high availability.

Registry Paths:

Profile: HKLM\Software\FSLogix\Profile

ODFC: HKLM\Software\Policies\FSLogix\ODFC

Note: CCDLocations and VHD locations must not be present at the same time.

Cloud cache settings are only valid when used with CCDLocations in either profiles or ODFC configuration.

Logs & Group Policy

Log Path: C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Logs

By default, logging is enabled for all log files.

Registry path for login: HKLM\Software\FSLogix\Logging

User Groups

After FSLogix installation, four user groups are created:

FSLogix ODFC Exclude List

FSLogix ODFC Include List

FSLogix Profile Exclude List

FSLogix Profile Include List

Profile Type Settings

0: Normal profile behavior

1: Machine should only be the RW profile instance

2: Machine should only be RO profile instance

3: Machine should try to take the RW role and if it can't, it should fallback to RO Role.

Policy Templates

FSLogix.admx and FSLogix.adml are both included in the installer zip file.

Copy .admx into C:\Windows\PolicyDefinitions

Copy .adml into C:\Windows\PolicyDefinitions\en-US

